● SI BUSCAS LAS PREGUNTAS COMUNES EN ESPAÑOL SIGUE BAJANDO. (LINEA 55)

● ENG: Q&A if you want leased beats or download them without charge:
(if you use my beats I am assuming you have read and accepted this conditions.)


Q: What does "FREE" and "only for non-profit use" mean?
A: YouTube/Soundcloud and other social media are allowed with NO MONETIZATION.
Also, it won't be distributed/upload on services such as Spotify/Apple Music/Google Play etc.


Q: Can I use your beats for free for non-profit projects?
A: Yes, beats are generally free only for non-profit use when you crediting "prod. prhps" in the title and description of your vids.
Please don't forget to give production credits.


Q: If I purchase license can i sell it on Spotify, iTunes, etc?
A: Yes, you can distribute your songs on iTunes, Spotify etc., but you are not allowed to use Content ID system, "copyright.gov" or any worldwide copyright organization or any other Content ID system unless you have acquired exclusive rights.


Q: What license is needed for monetization on commercial music platforms?
A: To monetize and upload on all commercial music platforms, one must purchase at least a basic MP3 lease.
If you need better quality you can buy WAV Lease or Trackouts.


Q: What means ownership 50/50 in every license (mp3, wav, and trackouts).
Do you charge 50% of my royalties for streaming a song???
A: Of course not, 50/50 is the share of writers on "public performance royalty".
Public performance royalty - this royalty for Music played over the radio station, in a restaurant or bar, TV shows.
Mechanical Royalty - this royalty are paid to songwriters and artists when music is sold (think CD or vinyl) but also when music is streamed on commercial music platforms (Apple music, Spotify etc)

Producers don't take your Mechanical Royalty, if this not Exclusive Rights on beat. (on major labels, producer can take 3-4% of the mechanical royalty for exclusive rights to the beat.)
Mechanical Royalty will be 100% yours if you lease beats.
Public Performance royalty are always divided between the Artist / Songwriter and Producer / Composer, as well as between the Publisher Agency (if this agency is deal in an artist or producer).

Also Public Performance royalty (in BMI) indicated as 200%, by default in contract indicate to 50/50. But in fact share 200%. Everyone turns out what he deserves. 100% your shares, 100% my.
Licensor (Producer) receives: 50% for the Writer's Share and 50% for the Publisher Share.
Licensee (Artist) receives: 50% for Writer's Share and 50% for Publisher Share.
Total 200%

Ownership of the composition 50/50 in the contract means dividing these 200% equally to everyone.
This is the simplest example of dividing Public Performance Royalty without the participation of collaborators, Sound Engineers, the people who worked on the recording, etc.

Public Performance Royalties collect by "PRO" (Performance rights organization) such as: BMI, ASCAP, SESAC etc.
Mechanical royalties collect other agencies.
Do not confuse them.
Also, if you are on a major label, most likely he will take all this work for you.

And finally, if you have SAMPLES in your composition and you do not have the right to use them, before registering the song, you as an artist or your label will need to clearence samples (contact the original author of sample and you need to reach agreement with him or purchasing Synchronization rights).
Otherwise, you may get into an unpleasant situation.

SAMPLE CLEARENCE IS NOT PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY.


● ESP: Preguntas comunes y respuestas en el caso de que quieras adquirir una licencia de mis beats o descargarlos gratuitamente:
(si usas mis beats asumiré que estás al tanto de estos términos)

P: Qué quiere decir "Gratis" (FREE) o "Sin uso comercial permitido" (only for non-profit use)?
R: Esto quiere decir que puedes distribuir tu música libremente por Youtube, Soundcloud u otros medios SIN MONETIZACIÓN (SI NO TIENES LICENCIA).
Por lo que no podrás distribuir tu música en servicios como Spotify, Apple Music, Google Play etc.


P: Puedo usar tus beats sin fines lucrativos?
R: Adelante, pero por favor no te olvides de incluirme en el título y descripción de tus videos como el productor "prod. prhps".


P: Si adquiero una licencia voy a poder distribuir y vender mi música en Spotify, iTunes...?
R: Sí, podrás hacer uso de estos medios, pero no podrás ejercer el sistema de Content ID, "copyright.gov", o cualquier otro sistema de derechos de autor, a no ser que hayas adquirido una LICENCIA EXCLUSIVA (Que te otorga derechos plenos).


P: Qué licencia es necesaria para hacer posible la monetización de mis canciones?
R: Para poder monetizar, vender, o distribuir en cualquier medio comercial, deberás comprar una licencia MP3 básica como mínimo.
Si buscas incluso mayor calidad siempre puedes adquirir una licencia WAV o el proyecto separado.


P: ¿Qué significa la propiedad 50/50 en cada licencia (mp3, wav, and trackouts)?
¿Cobran el 50% de mis ingresos por distribuir una canción?
R: Por supuesto que no, 50/50 es la proporción de escritores sobre "ingresos por desempeño público".
Ingreso de desempeño público: la música que se reproduce en la estación de radio, en un restaurante o bar, en programas de televisión.
Ingreso mecánico: la cual se paga a los compositores y artistas cuando se vende música (piense en CD o vinilo), pero también cuando la música se transmite en plataformas de música comerciales (Apple Music, Spotify, etc.)

Los productores no toman su Ingreso mecánico, si no estos Derechos Exclusivos a la instrumental. (En las grandes discográficas, el productor puede tomar del 3 al 4% de la regalía mecánica por los derechos exclusivos del ritmo.)
Regalía mecánica 100% tuya si alquilas beats.
Los derechos de autor de la interpretación pública siempre se dividen entre el artista / productor / compositor, así como entre la agencia editorial (si esta agencia tiene un contrato con un artista o productor).

También la regalía por desempeño público (en BMI) indicada como 200%, por defecto en el contrato indica 50/50. Pero de hecho comparte el 200%. Todos resultan lo que se merecen. 100% tus acciones, 100% mías.
El licenciante (productor) recibe: 50% de la participación del escritor y 50% de la participación del editor.
El artista recibe: 50% por participación de escritor y 50% por participación de editor.
Total 200%

La propiedad de la composición 50/50 en el contrato significa dividir estos 200% por igual para todos.
Este es el ejemplo más simple de dividir la Regalía de Interpretación Pública sin la participación de colaboradores, Ingenieros de Sonido, personas que trabajaron en la grabación, etc.

Los Ingresos por desempeño público cobradas por "PRO" (organización de derechos de desempeño) como: BMI, ASCAP, SESAC, etc.
Los Ingresos mecánicos son cobrados por otras agencias.
No confundir por favor.
Además, si estás en una discográfica importante, lo más probable es que se hagan cargo de todo este trabajo.

Y finalmente, si tienes SAMPLES en tu composición y no tienes derecho a usarlos, antes de registrar la canción, tú como artista o tu sello necesitará tener autorización sobre su uso (contacta con el autor original del sample y ponte de acuerdo con él o compra de derechos de sincronización, aunque esto no suele ocurrir muy seguido a no ser que sea un sample muy utilizado/protegido por derechos de autor).
De lo contrario, podrías llegar a una situación desagradable.

LA PROCEDENCIA O AUTORIZACIÓN DE LOS SAMPLES NO ES RESPONSABILIDAD DEL PRODUCTOR.
